docs: Multi-port support for v1.17 GA (#19401)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/k8s/multiport/reference/resource-command.mdx

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Resource'
description: >-
  The `consul resource` command interacts with Consul's v2 catalog of services and its resources. It exposes top-level commands for reading and filtering data from the registry.
---

# Consul Resource

Command: `consul resource`

Use the `resource` command to apply, list, read, and delete resources when interacting with Consul's v2 catalog through the command line. For more information, refer to [v2 catalog API](/consul/docs/concept/catalog/v2).

## Usage

```text
Usage: consul resource <subcommand> [options]

  # ...

Subcommands:

    apply     Write or update resource information
    delete    Delete resource information
    list      Read all resources by type
    read      Read resource information
```

On Kubernetes deployments, you must use a `kubectl exec` command to open a shell to the Consul server's container before you can run this Consul CLI command.

## Subcommands

You can issue the following subcommands with the `consul resource` command.

### `apply`

`consul resource apply` writes or updates a resource at a given file path. 

> The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication).
> 
> | ACL Required |
> | ------------ |
> | `operator:write`  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must present a token with `operator:write` [ACL permissions](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication) to use the `apply` command. 
```
I know our CLI docs use this single-field table format all the time, but it's inconsistent with the style guidance on tables. I would prefer to just state the ACL requirement this way, but ignore this comment if you disagree.

#### Command Options

- `-f=<filepath>` - (Required) The path to the file that defines the Consul resource. When the file that defines the resource is in the current working directory, you may optionally omit this flag and pass the resource filename only.

#### Example usage

> The following command applies a TrafficPermissions resource to Consul that restricts service-to-service communication to authorized services only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following command applies a traffic permissions resource to Consul that restricts service-to-service communication to authorized services only.
```

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul resource apply -f=trafficpermissions.yaml
```

### `delete`

`consul resource delete`removes a Consul resource at a given file path.

> The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table shows the required [ACLs permissions](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication) to run the `delete` command:
```
If you decide to keep the single-field tables, we should use consistent introductions.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `operator:write`  |

#### Command Options

- `-f=<filepath>` - (Required) The path to the file that defines the Consul resource. When the file that defines the resource is in the current working directory, you may optionally omit this flag and pass the resource filename only.

#### Example usage

> The following command removes a TrafficPermissions resource from Consul that restricts service-to-service communication to authorized services only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following command removes a traffic permissions resource from Consul that restricts service-to-service communication to authorized services only.
```
